# [**9.** `Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml`](@id Project-and-Manifest)

Two files that are central to Pkg are `Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml`.
`Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml` are written in [TOML](https://github.com/toml-lang/toml)
(hence the `.toml` extension) and include information about dependencies, versions,
package names and UUIDs etc.

!!! note
    The `Project.toml` and `Manifest.toml` files are not only used by the package
    manager, they are also used by Julia's code loading, and determines e.g.
    what `using Example` should do. For more details see the section about
    [Code Loading](https://docs.julialang.org/en/v1/manual/code-loading/)
    in the Julia manual.


## `Project.toml`

The project file describes the project on a high level, for example
the package/project dependencies and compatibility constraints are
listed in the project file. The file entries are described below.


### The `name` field

The name of the package/project is determined by the `name` field.
Example:
```toml
name = "Example"
```
The name can contain word characters `[a-zA-Z0-9_]`, but can
not start with a number. For packages it is recommended to follow
the [package naming guidelines](@ref Package-naming-guidelines).
The `name` field is mandatory for packages.


### The `uuid` field

`uuid` is a string with a [universally unique identifier]
(https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier) for the package/project.
Example:
```toml
uuid = "7876af07-990d-54b4-ab0e-23690620f79a"
```
The `uuid` field is mandatory for packages.


### The `version` field

`version` is a string with the version number for the package/project.
Example:
```toml
version = "1.2.5"
```
Julia uses [Semantic Versioning](https://semver.org/) (SemVer) and the
`version` field should follow SemVer. The basic rules are:
* Before 1.0.0, anything goes, but when you make breaking changes
  the minor version should be incremented.
* After 1.0.0 only make breaking changes when incrementing the major version.
* After 1.0.0 no new public API should be added without incrementing the
  minor version. This includes, in particular, new types, functions, methods and
  method overloads, from e.g. `Base` or other packages.


### The `[deps]` section

All dependencies of the package/project are listed in the `[deps]` section.
Each dependency is listed as a name-uuid pair, for example:

```toml
[deps]
Example = "7876af07-990d-54b4-ab0e-23690620f79a"
Test = "8dfed614-e22c-5e08-85e1-65c5234f0b40"
```

Typically it is not needed to manually add entries to the `[deps]` section,
this is instead handled by Pkg operations such as `add`.


### The `[compat]` section

Compatibility constraints for the dependencies listed under `[deps]`
can be listed in the `[compat]` section.
Example:

```toml
[deps]
Example = "7876af07-990d-54b4-ab0e-23690620f79a"

[compat]
Example = "1.2"
```

It is also possible to list constraints on `julia` itself, although `julia` is not
listed as a dependency.

```toml
[compat]
julia = "1.1"
```

The [Compatibility](@ref) section describes the different possible
compatibility constraints in detail.


## `Manifest.toml`

The manifest file is an absolute record of the state of the packages in the environment.
It includes exact information about (direct and indirect) dependencies of the project,
and given a `Project.toml` + `Manifest.toml` pair it is possible to instantiate the
exact same package environment, which is very useful for reproducibility,
see [`Pkg.instantiate`](@ref).

!!! note
    The `Manifest.toml` file is generated by Pkg and in general this file
    should never be modified manually.


### `Manifest.toml` entries

Each dependency has its own section in the manifest file, and its content varies depending
on how the dependency was added, see the examples below.
Every dependency section includes a combination of the following entries:

* `uuid`: the [UUID](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Universally_unique_identifier)
  for the dependency, for example `uuid = "7876af07-990d-54b4-ab0e-23690620f79a"`.
* `deps`: a vector listing the dependencies of the dependency, for example
  `deps = ["Example", "JSON"]`.
* `version`: a version number, for example `version = "1.2.6"`.
* `path`: a file path to the source code, for example `path = /home/user/Example`.
* `repo-url`: a URL to the repository where the source code was found,
  for example `repo-url = "https://github.com/JuliaLang/Example.jl.git"`.
* `repo-rev`: a git revision, for example a branch `repo-rev = "master"`
  or a commit `repo-rev = "66607a62a83cb07ab18c0b35c038fcd62987c9b1"`.
* `git-tree-sha1`: a content hash of the source tree, for example
  `git-tree-sha1 = "ca3820cc4e66f473467d912c4b2b3ae5dc968444"`.

Note, however, that `uuid`, `deps` and `version` are present for all dependency sections.


#### Added package

When a package is added from a package registry, for example by
invoking `pkg> add Example` or with a specific version `pkg> add Example@1.2`
the resulting `Manifest.toml` entry looks like:

```toml
[[Example]]
deps = ["DependencyA", "DependencyB"]
git-tree-sha1 = "8eb7b4d4ca487caade9ba3e85932e28ce6d6e1f8"
uuid = "7876af07-990d-54b4-ab0e-23690620f79a"
version = "1.2.3"
```

Note, in particular, that no `repo-url` is present, since that information is included
in the registry where this package were found.

#### Added package by branch

The resulting dependency section when adding a package specified by a branch,
e.g. `pkg> add Example#master` or `pkg> add https://github.com/JuliaLang/Example.jl.git`
looks like:

```toml
[[Example]]
deps = ["DependencyA", "DependencyB"]
git-tree-sha1 = "54c7a512469a38312a058ec9f429e1db1f074474"
repo-rev = "master"
repo-url = "https://github.com/JuliaLang/Example.jl.git"
uuid = "7876af07-990d-54b4-ab0e-23690620f79a"
version = "1.2.4"
```

Note that both the branch we are tracking (`master`) and the remote repository url
`"https://github.com/JuliaLang/Example.jl.git"` are included.

#### Added package by commit

The resulting dependency section when adding a package specified by a commit,
e.g. `pkg> add Example#cf6ba6cc0be0bb5f56840188563579d67048be34` looks like

```toml
[[Example]]
deps = ["DependencyA", "DependencyB"]
git-tree-sha1 = "54c7a512469a38312a058ec9f429e1db1f074474"
repo-rev = "cf6ba6cc0be0bb5f56840188563579d67048be34"
repo-url = "https://github.com/JuliaLang/Example.jl.git"
uuid = "7876af07-990d-54b4-ab0e-23690620f79a"
version = "1.2.4"
```

The only difference from tracking a branch is the content of `repo-rev`.

#### Developed package

The resulting dependency section when adding a package specified by a commit,
e.g. `pkg> develop Example` or `pkg> develop /path/to/local/folder/Example`
looks like:

```toml
[[Example]]
deps = ["DependencyA", "DependencyB"]
path = "/home/user/.julia/dev/Example/"
uuid = "7876af07-990d-54b4-ab0e-23690620f79a"
version = "1.2.4"
```

Note that the path to the source code is included, and changes made to that
source tree is directly reflected.

#### Pinned package

Pinned packages are also recorded in the manifest file, the resulting
dependency section for e.g. `pkg> add Example; pin Example` looks like:

```toml
[[Example]]
deps = ["DependencyA", "DependencyB"]
git-tree-sha1 = "54c7a512469a38312a058ec9f429e1db1f074474"
pinned = true
uuid = "7876af07-990d-54b4-ab0e-23690620f79a"
version = "1.2.4"
```

The only difference is the addition of the `pinned = true` entry.
